== Annotate (aka AnnotateModels)

IMPORTANT:  If you're upgrading from a previous version, including 2.5.0.beta1,
re-run the generator task!

Add a comment summarizing the current schema to the top or bottom of each of your...

- ActiveRecord models
- Fixture files
- Tests and Specs
- Object Daddy exemplars
- Machinist blueprints
- Fabrication fabricators
- Thoughtbot's factory_girl factories, i.e. the (spec|test)/factories/<model>_factory.rb files
- routes.rb file

The schema comment looks like this:

   # == Schema Info
   #
   # Table name: line_items
   #
   #  id                  :integer(11)    not null, primary key
   #  quantity            :integer(11)    not null
   #  product_id          :integer(11)    not null
   #  unit_price          :float
   #  order_id            :integer(11)
   #

    class LineItem < ActiveRecord::Base
      belongs_to :product
     . . .

It also annotates geometrical columns, geom type and srid, when using SpatialAdapter or PostgisAdapter:

   # == Schema Info
   #
   # Table name: trips
   #
   #  local           :geometry        point, 4326
   #  path            :geometry        line_string, 4326

Also, if you pass the -r option, it'll annotate routes.rb with the output of "rake routes".

== INSTALL

Into Gemfile from Github:

    gem 'annotate', :git => 'git://github.com/MrJoy/annotate_models.git'

Into environment gems From rubygems.org:

    gem install annotate

Into environment gems from Github checkout:

  git clone git://github.com/MrJoy/annotate_models.git annotate_models
  cd annotate_models
  rake build
  gem install pkg/annotate-*.gem

== USAGE

(If you used the Gemfile install, prefix the below commands with `bundle exec`.)

To annotate all your models, tests, fixtures, etc.:

  cd /path/to/app
  annotate_models

To annotate your models and tests:

  annotate_models --exclude fixtures

To annotate just your models:

  annotate_models --exclude tests,fixtures

To annotate routes.rb:

  annotate_models -r

To remove annotations:

  annotate_models -d

To automatically annotate after running 'rake db:migrate', ensure you've added
annotate_models to your Rails project's Gemfile, and run this:

  rails g annotate_models:install

This will produce a .rake file that will ensure annotation happens after
migration (but only in development mode), and provide configuration options
you can use to tailor the output.

If you want to skip the annotation pass when running `rake db:migrate`, set the
`skip_on_db_migrate` variable:

  skip_on_db_migrate=1 rake db:migrate


If you want to always skip annotations on a particular model, add this string
anywhere in the file:

  # -*- SkipSchemaAnnotations

== OPTIONS

    Usage: annotate_models [options]
        -d, --delete                     Remove annotations from all model files
        -p, --position [before|after]    Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the model/test/fixture/factory file(s)
            --pc, --position-in-class [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the model file
            --pf, --position-in-factory [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the factory file
            --px, --position-in-fixture [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the fixture file
            --pt, --position-in-test [before|after]
                                         Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the test file
        -v, --version                    Show the current version of this gem
        -m, --show-migration             Include the migration version number in the annotation
        -i, --show-indexes               List the table's database indexes in the annotation
        -s, --simple-indexes             Concat the column's related indexes in the annotation
            --model-dir dir              Annotate model files stored in dir rather than app/models
            --ignore-model-subdirects    Ignore subdirectories of the models directory
        -n, --no-sort                    Sort columns in creation order rather than alphabetically
        -R, --require path               Additional file to require before loading models, may be used multiple times
        -e [tests,fixtures,factories],   Do not annotate fixtures, test files, and/or factories
            --exclude
        -f [bare|rdoc|markdown],         Render Schema Infomation as plain/RDoc/Markdown
            --format
            --force                      Force new annotations even if there are no changes.

    Usage: annotate_routes [options]
        -d, --delete                     Remove annotations from routes file
        -p, --position [before|after]    Place the annotations at the top (before) or the bottom (after) of the routes file
        -v, --version                    Show the current version of this gem
        -R, --require path               Additional file to require before loading models, may be used multiple times

== SORTING

By default, columns will be sorted alphabetically so that the results of
annotation are consistent regardless of what order migrations are executed in.

If you prefer the old behavior, use --no-sort.

== WARNING

Note that this code will blow away the initial/final comment block in your
models if it looks like it was previously added by this gem, so you don't want
to add additional text to an automatically created comment block.

BACK UP YOUR MODELS BEFORE USING THIS TOOL!

== LINKS

- Factory Girl: http://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl
- Object Daddy: http://github.com/flogic/object_daddy
- Machinist: http://github.com/notahat/machinist
- Fabrication: http://github.com/paulelliott/fabrication
- SpatialAdapter: http://github.com/pdeffendol/spatial_adapter
- PostgisAdapter: http://github.com/nofxx/postgis_adapter

== LICENSE:

Released under the same license as Ruby. No Support. No Warranty.

== AUTHORS:

- Original code by: Dave Thomas -- Pragmatic Programmers, LLC <http://agilewebdevelopment.com/plugins/annotate_models>
- Overhauled by: Alex Chaffee <http://alexch.github.com> alex@stinky.com
- Gemmed by: Cuong Tran <http://github.com/ctran> ctran@pragmaquest.com
- Maintained by: Alex Chaffee and Cuong Tran
- Homepage: http://github.com/ctran/annotate_models

With help from:

- Jack Danger - http://github.com/JackDanger
- Michael Bumann - http://github.com/bumi
- Henrik Nyh - http://github.com/henrik
- Marcos Piccinini - http://github.com/nofxx
- Neal Clark - http://github.com/nclark
- Jacqui Maher - http://github.com/jacqui
- Nick Plante - http://github.com/zapnap - http://blog.zerosum.org
- Pedro Visintin - http://github.com/peterpunk - http://www.pedrovisintin.com
- Bob Potter - http://github.com/bpot
- Gavin Montague - http://github.com/govan
- Alexander Semyonov - http://github.com/rotuka
- Nathan Brazil - http://github.com/bitaxis
- Ian Duggan http://github.com/ijcd
- Jon Frisby http://github.com/mrjoy

and many others that I may have missed to add.
